# Standard Methods

A set of Scala macros for generating the methods defined on `java.lang.Object`: `equals`, `hashCode` and `toString`.

For example, say you have a class with:

```scala
import io.methvin.standardmethods.macros._
class Person(val name: String, val age: Int, description: String) {
  override def equals(other: Any) = equalsConstructorVals(this, other)
  override def hashCode = hashCodeConstructorVals(this)
  override def toString = toStringConstructorParams(this)
  def canEqual(other: Any): Boolean = other.isInstanceOf[Person]
}
```

In this case, `equals` and `hashCode` will be generated from the `val`s in the constructor of the class. `toString` is generated by referencing the constructor params in scope. The generated code looks something like this:

```scala
import io.methvin.standardmethods.macros._
class Person(val name: String, val age: Int, description: String) {

  override def equals(other: Any) = other match {
    case other$macro$1: Person =>
      other$macro$1.canEqual(this) &&
      this.name == other$macro$1.name &&
      this.age == other$macro$1.age
    case _ => false
  }

  override def hashCode = scala.util.hashing.MurmurHash3.seqHash(
    scala.collection.immutable.Seq(this.name, this.age))

  override def toString = "Person" + Seq(name, age, description).mkString("(", ",", ")")

  def canEqual(other: Any): Boolean = other.isInstanceOf[Person]
}
```

`other canEqual this` is used if it is available. Otherwise `this.getClass == that.getClass` is used to check if the type is compatible.

You can also use `equalsAllVals` and `hashCodeAllVals` to use *all* vals owned by the class rather than just those in the constructor. Note that this does not include vals defined in a superclass. Generally superclass vals can be handled by using `equalsAllVals(this, that) && super.equals(that)` and `hashCodeAllVals(this) ^ super.hashCode`. Contributions are welcome if someone wants to provide a more elegant solution.

Note: the macros are primarily meant to be used in a method of the class on which they are used, but `equals` and `hashCode` will work elsewhere as long as all the necessary methods are public. In other words, the macros for `equals` and `hashCode` themselves do not depend on the scope, since the instances used are passed directly, but the code they generate might not work due to privacy restrictions. The `toStringConstructorParams` macro simply referenced the unprefixed constructor params, so it must be used within the class where it is needed.

## License

This code is licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0.

## Issues and Contributions

Please report an issue on this GitHub repository if you find anything that doesn't work or you have any feature requests. This is a side project for me so your issue is much more likely to be fixed if you submit a pull request.
